# Introduction
Ground-Based Augmentation Systems (GBAS) are essential for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of satellite-based navigation for aircraft precision landings. However, severe ionospheric gradients can affect the integrity of GBAS systems. Very limited work has been done on the aspect of ionospheric gradient detection and alert mechanism. This paper focuses on implementation of a simple approach to detect ionospheric gradients over low-latitude Indian stations, known for severe ionospheric variations. Time-step method is used to calculate the gradients from Slant Total Electron Content (STEC) data. The gradients are computed using 30-second intervals, and an alerting framework is implemented based on three predefined threshold values (Alert Threshold (AT), Recovery Threshold (RT) and Time to Recover (TR)). Results indicate that the threshold combination (AT = 300 mm/km, RT = 100 mm/km, TR = 5 minutes) effectively detects high gradients, triggers an alert when necessary, and maintains the alert until conditions improve to a safe level while minimizing false alarms. The results obtained are encouraging and will be helpful for effective implementation of GBAS at low-latitude stations.

# Integration of ML
In the above discussion, the values of Alert Threshold are chosen manually in order to predict alerts given the gradients. However this methodology can be improvised by introducing Unsupervised Machine Learning. By selecting a single parameter called the contamination rate, the given data point can be classified into an anomaly. This method ensures that the process of selecting accurate values of threshold is skipped and the data point can be classified into an anomaly depending on the existing data obtained from different satellites. An alert can be triggered if the data point is classified as an anomaly. 
